# Glossary

**C720 Glossary**

**ABC Analysis** has been developed to determine which inventory items should receive the highest level of control, focusing efforts where the payoff is highest. The inventory classifications are based upon the annual dollar usage of each item.(p. 81)

**Adjustment strategy -** used to add or reduce capacity in small or large amounts as consumer demand or major changes to product or system architecture occurs. (p. 46)

**Aggregate planning** is the combining of individual end items into product groups or product families for planning purposes. It is a medium range (6 – 18 months) statement of planned output by product groups on a monthly basis. (p. 65 and p. 67)

**Agile Supply Chain** is the use of responsiveness, competency, flexibility, and quickness to manage how well a supply chain entity operates on a daily basis and attempts to assess the needs of its customers in great detail so it can provide customized products that better meet the customer's expectations. (p. 38)

**Assembly line** is used to describe the assembly of low-variety, high volume discrete products. Product layout relatively high fixed costs and relatively low variable costs Ex. Washing machine assembly. (p. 54)

**Available to Promise** is used in master scheduling to designate inventory that has not yet been sold. (p. 68)

**Average Inventory Level** is the formula that calculates the amount of goods on hand at any given point. (p. 82) Average Inventory = Q/2 where Q represents the quantity ordered each time.

**Backward Vertical Integration** is when a company owns the supplier or supply process in the supply chain. (p. 38)

**Batch flow processes** address the product variations. Batch flow is a term used to describe a production process that aggregates similar products together to generate sufficient volume for efficient use in a facility. (p. 54)

**Benchmarking** is a process by which a company compares its performance to the performance of other companies who need not be competitors, nor be within the same industry. The purpose of benchmarking is to set a standard based upon the company that is recognized as the best at a certain activity (p. 29)

**Bill of materials** (BOM) lists the materials needed and the quantities of each to produce the finished product. Identifies how many of each part goes into making one unit of a finished product. (p. 62 and 68)

**Bottleneck** is the most limiting constraint on the system. It occurs at the point in the process that requires the longest time or has the slowest rate  (p. 39)

**Buildup method (qualitative)** requires starting at the bottom of an organization and making an overall estimate by adding together estimates from each element. (p. 63)

**Business Process** is a set of work activities with a preferred order, an identifiable beginning and end, inputs, and clearly defined outputs that add value to the customer. (p. 9)

**Capacity** is a measure of an organization's ability to sustainably provide customers with the demanded services or goods in the amount requested and in a timely manner, given current resources. Capacity also describes an organization’s maximum sustainable rate of production. (p. 45)

**Capacity utilization** is a metric, or measure, used to determine how much capacity is actually being used on an average basis.

Capacity Utilization = Actual Output / Design Capacity

**Capital Productivity** includes all money invested in land, facilities, equipment, and working capital such as inventory. (p. 16)

**Cash to Cash Cycle**- The gap between when a company must pay its suppliers and when it receives payment by customers (p. 38)

**Chase Demand** uses two methods to adjust production rates to match demand—varying the workforce and using overtime. (p. 71)

**Check sheets** are the means used to record data points in real-time at the site where the data is generated. (p. 30)

**Competitive advantage** is a capability that customers value, such as short delivery lead time or high product quality that gives an organization an edge against its competition. (p. 14) Some scholars use the acronym VIRAL as a framework for competitive advantage. The advantage must provide Value to consumers; it should be Inimitable (not easily imitated), Rare, and an organization must have the Aptitude (capability) and Lifespan (sustainability) to earn appropriate returns on the advantage. (p. 14)

**Competitive capabilities** are the outcomes of well-designed business processes, and, in turn, they enable a firm to satisfy its customer requirements. (p. 16)

**Constraint** is any resource whose capacity is less than or equal to demand for that resource. (p. 39)

**Continuous flow** **process** does not usually identify individual units; rather, the product is mixed and flows together in a continuous stream. Low variety, high volume. Product layout. relatively high fixed costs and relatively low variable costs Ex. Oil refining process (p. 54)

**Continuous improvement** is broadly defined as ongoing efforts to improve products, services, or processes requiring a set of methods or problem-solving tools. (p. 29)

**Control charts** are graphical depictions of process output where the raw data is plotted in real-time within upper (UCL) and lower control limits (LCL).  (p. 30)

**Conveyance Kanban (C-kanban)** is an authorization to move a container of parts or materials. Without it, nothing can be moved. (p. 90)

**Cost reductions** are cost savings associated with inventory reduction and other savings that attempt to achieve much lower costs than their competitors. (p. 92)

**Costs of Quality** is a method that allows organizations to determine the costs associated with producing and maintaining quality products. (p. 24)

1. **Appraisal costs—**An investment in measuring quality and assessing customer satisfaction.
2. **Failure costs—**They can be internal to the organization or external, involving the customer.
3. **Prevention costs—**Putting a stop to the quality problem.

**Crosby, Philip** was a quality philosopher who focused on the concept of zero defects as a measurable object emphasizing the importance of considering all costs of quality (p. 25).

**Customer Requirements** means building competitive capabilities, such as flexibility, productivity, quality, and time. (p. 14)

**Cycle counting** is a way to reconcile inventory records and correct errors, and many companies using MRP also employ cycle counting. Using this method, a physical count of each part is made at least once during its replenishment cycle, which is the period between orders to replenish inventory. (p. 69)

**Cycle Times** is a measure of how often a particular product is made. (p. 91)

Cycle time = working time per day/units required per day

**Daily dispatch list** indicates in what sequence to complete the production jobs waiting at a work center or department. (p. 69)

**Days of Supply (DoS)**- How many days your inventory (generally finished goods inventory) will last based on current sales averages.  (p. 38)

DoS = Finished Goods Inventory / Average Sales per Day

**Deming, W. Edwards** was a quality philosopher who developed had 14-point quality plan and focused on Statistical Process Control (SPC) with the basic premise that the system, not employees, causes defects. (p. 25)

**Dependent demand** is usually demand for an item that is generated by a company’s production process that is based upon the associated independent demand item. To manage inventory for dependent demand items, companies often use material requirements planning (MRP). (p. 62 and 69)

**Design capacity** is the maximum achievable output of a process or system. based on what a service firm or a manufacturer can produce under ideal conditions for a short period of time. (p. 47)

**Design for manufacture and assembly (DFMA)** emphasizes that products should be designed so they are simple and inexpensive to produce. (p. 24)

**Design of experiments (DOE)** solves problems within complex systems or processes that have many different factors that are not easily isolated from other factors. (p. 31)

**DMADV** process is used specifically for new products or processes, and it is also known as design for six sigma (DFSS with five steps summarized as define, measure, analyze, design, and verify. (p. 31)

**DMAIC** is a process of six sigma that follows five steps: define, measure, analyze, improve, and control. (p. 31)

1. **Define—**The Six Sigma expert uses a project charter to define a problem or an improvement opportunity and can also involve the voice of the customer or VOC.
2. **Measure—**Measuring current, or as is process performance is accomplished with a process map of the activities performed at each step of the process.
3. **Analyze—**Charts and diagrams are used to visualize the measurements and the frequency of problems or defects, including scatterplots, Pareto charts, histograms, and run charts to determine the root causes of variation in the process that result in failures or defects.
4. **Improve—**The current process is changed by addressing the root causes identified in the analysis stage to improve process performance through a control plan to document the requirements to reduce process variation.
5. **Control—**Maintaining and standardizing the improved performance is the final step of the DMAIC methodology.

**Documentation** is the act of putting a standardized procedure into writing. (p. 28)

**Dual-Card Kanban System** combines the C-kanban and the P-kanban to allow greater control over production as well as over inventory. (p. 90)

**Economic Order Quantity (EOQ)** model is concerned primarily with the cost of ordering and the cost of holding inventory for purchases items and assumes inventory will arrive complete. (p. 82 & 84)

**Economic Production Quantity** **(EOQ)** helps companies control the cost of ordering, receiving, and holding inventory, allows for incremental ordering and depletion and is commonly used for production processes where inventory is arriving into storage and sent out into a production process. (p. 84)

**Economies of scale** is the ability to produce more goods at a lower cost by better utilizing the same fixed costs. (p. 55)

**Economies of scope** can be expressed as “economies of scale through product line diversification.” It implies building the volume necessary to cover fixed costs by producing a variety of products on the same equipment (p. 55)

**Effective capacity** is the maximum capacity given the product mix, equipment changeovers, and scheduled downtime of the production schedule. (p. 47)

**Efficiency** is achieving an outcome with a minimum amount of effort; that is, mitigating waste (p. 16) or how much effective capacity is actually being used to achieve output. (p. 47)

Efficiency = Actual Output / Effective Capacity

**Electronic Kanban (e-kanban)** is a digital signal or electronic authorization to move a container of parts or replenishment of materials and to authorize the production of parts or subassemblies. (p. 90)

**Employee empowerment** involves employees in every step--from product design to process design, and system design. (p. 29)

**Employee training** focuses on emphasizing the importance of training employees to use the tools of statistical process control. (p. 28)

**Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)** is the next evolution of MRP II which added modules that enhanced managers' ability to make data-driven decisions by providing an enterprise-wide view of data-driven productivity.  (p. 69)

**Ethical behavior** is a corporate issue that affects the company’s bottom line. (p. 11)

**Ethics** are a sense of what is right and wrong that guide behavior. (p. 11 & 12)

**Exploding the BOM** refers to producing an MRP table for each item in a bill of materials to determine how many materials are needed for production. (p. 69)

**Exponential smoothing** **(quantitative)** is another form of a weighted moving average.  The method is based on averaging (or smoothing) past values by using a smoothing constant.  The smoothing constant value ranges from 0 to 1 and determines if more weight is applied to the actual demand or the forecasted demand. (p. 63)

**External orientation of quality** is the “fitness for use” for the customer or the capacity to satisfy customer’s needs. (p. 23)

**Facility Layout** allows the production of small batches because each group of machines is dedicated to just one part. (p. 90)

**Facility location** is the placement of a facility with regard to a company’s customers, suppliers, and other facilities with which the company interacts. (p. 50 & 51)

**Fact-based management** in TQM is a philosophy of basing decisions on facts, data, and analysis. (p. 28)

**Final assembly schedule** is an exact statement of the final products that are to be assembled stated on a daily basis that extends about a week into the future. (p. 91)

**Fishbone charts, also known as Cause and Effect or Ishikawa Diagrams** show the impact of various inputs into the result of a process which helps organizations isolate the root causes of problems such as bottlenecks in their processes. (p. 30)

**5S methodology** creates visual control of the workplace. (sort, straighten, shine, standardize, and sustain) (p. 31)

**Fixed costs (FC)** are those which remain the same in all business conditions. (p. 52)

**Flexible manufacturing systems** (FMS) are similar to a manufacturing cell because it relies on group technology to build families of parts. (p. 54)

**Focus on the customer** allows the customers to define whether or not products are high quality. A customer can be anyone, whether inside or outside an organization, who receives the output from an activity or process. (p.27)

**Forecast (or forecasting)** mathematical models that are used to project future sales, product costs, advertising costs, and more. Usually, the result of examining past experiences to gain insights into the future.  (p. 60)

**Forecast error** is the difference between what actually happens and what is predicted. (p. 60)

**Forward Vertical Integration** is when a company owns the retailer or retail process in the supply chain. (p. 38)

**Frozen period (MPS)** is the time into the future in which the MPS cannot be altered (no new orders) to avoid disruptions to resources already allocated for orders. (p. 68)

**Goods** are defined as articles of trade, merchandise, or wares. (p. 8)

**Group technology** is a set of methods that enables firms to classify parts based on size, shape, use, type of material, and method of production. (p. 54)

**Group technology (GT)** **production system** may be used to make several different, but related, parts. The idea behind GT is that each part follows the same essential processing sequence. By keeping similar parts together, setup time is reduced, and the flow of materials is not interrupted. (p. 90)

**Histogram** (or box chart) will demonstrate the frequency of data observations within a preset range of values. (p. 30)

**Holding Costs** (carrying costs) are those associated with storing inventory that remains unsold. (p. 82)

**House of Quality** is a matrix used in QFD that depicts the customer needs, or the "whats," are, design characteristics related to these needs as "hows." and the relationship matrix in the middle (the what versus how) indicates the nature of the relationship between each customer's need and each design characteristic. (p. 28)

**Independent demand** is demand that is not controlled directly by the company, such as demand from customers. Items usually include finished products or replacement parts sold to customers.  These items are forecasted. (p. 62 and 69)

**Inputs** include people, capital, materials, and energy applied in any stage of the chain of processes that lead to value creation. (p. 7 & 8)

**Insourcing** is when goods and services are provided by the organization itself. (p. 38)

**Inspection** is an assessment of the quality of the good or service. (p. 24)

**Internal orientation of quality** directly measures characteristics of the product or service, such as the number of packages delivered on time, or the thickness of an engine part based on manufactures specification (p. 23)

**Inventory** is the term for the goods available for sale and raw materials used to produce goods available for sale. Inventory can help businesses meet demand and work more efficiently. (p. 80)

**Ishikawa, Kaoru** was a quality philosopher who focused on quality circles to solve problems lead by a champion to oversee & approve and developed Fishbone Chart (cause and effect diagram). (p. 25)

**JIT II –** Operations managed by vendors within customer's location that reduces lead-time. (p. 38)

**Job shop** production, the facility is general and flexible enough to meet a variety of needs. To achieve this flexibility, job shops generally have a much higher unit cost than line flow or batch processes for the same product. (p. 54)

**Juran, Joseph M.**  was a quality philosopher who focused on “fitness for use” and Pareto Principle, defining quality as “fitness for use” and emphasized the need for continuous improvement and stressed that quality must be built on three elements: quality planning, quality control, and quality improvement. (p. 25)

**Just-in-time** is defined as a philosophy of operation that seeks to maximize efficiency and eliminate waste in any form by aligning raw-material orders from suppliers directly with production schedules. (p. 88-89)

**Kaizen** is an event to discuss process improvement opportunities using ideas from the people who are directly involved in the processes. (p. 31)

**Kanban** is a Japanese word that can refer to a sign or a marker and means "visible record." Most often associated either with the movement of a container of parts or with the production of parts to fill an empty container. Kanban refers strictly to a card that is used to signal the need for more materials, parts, or subassemblies at downstream operations. (p. 90)

**Labor productivity** is a measure of economic performance that compares the amount of output with the amount of labor used to produce that output. (p. 16)

Labor Productivity = Quantity or Value of Units Produced / Labor Hours or Labor Cost

**Lag strategy**. This strategy entails adding capacity only after an organization is running at full capacity or is beyond due to increase in demand. (p. 46)

**Lead strategy** adds capacity with the anticipation of an increase in demand. reducing the amount of lead time and improving service levels meet all demands during high growth periods (p. 46)

**Lean Supply Chain** focuses on producing high volume at low cost with a goal to add value for customers by reducing the cost of goods, lowering waste or non-value-added activities. (p. 38)

**Level assembly schedule** means that the number of units of each end-product produced at a time is as small as possible, and that total production of each match’s average demand during the scheduling horizon. (p. 91)

**Location Analysis** is a process of gathering and analyzing data to assess the suitability of a site, or multiple sites, for a particular business. (p. 52)

**Logistics** involves managing the movement of materials, components, and information from point to point in the supply chain. (p. 37)

**Long-range operations planning** addresses facilities and resources, including the number of facilities to build, the location(s), the capacity, and the type of process technologies and is often considered to be five years, but could be longer or shorter depending on the industry. (p. 67)

**Make-to-order company** is one that produces only to customer orders or that provides services when a customer places an order. (p. 73)

**Make-to-stock company** is one that produces for inventory and meets customer orders from inventory, production orders are entered by the company based on the inventory level of each item in stock, and the expected future demand of that item. (p. 73)

**Manufacturing cells** rely on group technology to build a family of parts with similar design and processing characteristics. (p. 54)

**Manufacturing** is a specific term referring to the production of goods. (p. 8)

**Manufacturing Resource Planning MRP II** is a planning system that integrates data from the shop floor, distribution management systems, and the systems for finance, human resources, and engineering. (p. 69)

**Market share** is its percentage of sales in a particular market, that is, its sales divided by total sales for all organizations competing in a particular market. (p. 14)

**Mass customization** is the firm’s ability to produce differentiated products with cost effectiveness, volume effectiveness, and responsiveness to customers’ needs. (p. 14) It offers an alternative to addressing product variety. Firms that seek mass customization can design, produce, and quickly deliver products that meet specific customer needs at close to mass-production prices. (p. 54)

**Master production schedule (MPS) (also called the master schedule)** "disaggregates the aggregate plan" because it is a specific statement of exactly what will be produced and a specific date for production. (p. 68)

**Master Schedule** output of the MPS process and details how much needs to be produced within a certain period, usually a two- to three-month planning horizon. (p. 91)

**Match strategy** moderate strategy that adds capacity in small amounts.  (p. 46)

**Material Productivity** is the amount of economic output generated per unit of materials consumed. (p. 16)

**Material Requirements Planning (MRP)** is a computerized information system used to manage inventory for dependent demand items. (p. 69)

**Mean absolute deviation (MAD)** is similar to MSE, to estimate forecasting error. MAD is calculated by adding together the differences between the actual and forecasted value once the negative and positive signs are removed. (p. 64)

**Mean squared error (MSE)** is the average of all the squared errors. The differences are squared and added together, and then that total is divided by the number of observations. (p. 64)

**Medium-range operations planning** develops ways to utilize resources to meet customer demand. The time horizon for medium-range planning is generally from 6 to 18 months in the future but may vary outside of this range. (p. 67)

**On Time Delivery**- The percent of time orders are delivered to the customer on time. (p. 38)

**Operations** is the processes through which people, capital, and material are combined to produce the services and goods consumed by the public. (p. 7)

**Operations management** is the multidisciplinary science that organizations use to acquire inputs (such as people, capital, material, or energy) and transform them into outputs (products or services) that ultimately provide value to the end customer. (p. 7)

**Order fulfillment** involves all the steps required to satisfy a customer’s order, from obtaining an order and entering it into the organization’s information system, to delivering the order. (p. 15)

**Order Fulfillment Lead Times**- Length of time between receipt and shipment of an order. (p. 38)

**Order up to level** is when stock levels are periodically assessed, and an amount of the item is ordered to return stock levels to the target (p. 84)

**Ordering Costs** are the fixed and variable expenses incurred to create and process an order to a supplier. (p. 82)

**Organizational structure** is the infrastructure of formal relationships among different functions or subsystems, such as marketing, finance, and operations. Organizational structure defines the lines of communication. (p. 9)

**Outputs** are services or goods. Operations employs labor and management (people) and uses facilities and equipment (capital) to change materials (steel and plastics) into finished goods (diesel locomotives) or to provide services (healthcare). (p. 8)

**Outsourcing** is when goods and services are obtained from outside suppliers. (p. 38)

**Panel of experts (qualitative)** is comprised of people who are knowledgeable about the subject that is being considered. This group attempts to make a forecast by building consensus. (p. 63)

**Pareto chart** represents data values in a descending order to visualize the most frequent occurrences. (p. 30)

**Peak Demand** occurs in response to planned events. (p. 80)

**People Utilization** is depending heavily on their employees to solve problems or removing/ combining jobs for better worker utilization. (p. 92)

**Periodic Inventory System** randomly monitors inventory levels and is also called the fixed order interval system. (p. 81)

**Perpetual Inventory System** continuously monitors inventory levels and is also called continuous review system. (p. 81)

**Plan-Do-Check-Act Cycle** (also referred to as the Deming Wheel or the Shewhart cycle) embodies the philosophy of continuous improvement as the cycle is repeated over and over without end. (p. 28)

1. **Plan—**Before making any changes, make sure everything is documented and standardized. Use appropriate tools to identify problems or opportunities for improvement. Develop a plan to make changes.
2. **Do—**Implement the plan and document any changes made.
3. **Check—**Analyze the revised process to determine if goals have been achieved.
4. **Act—**If the goals have been achieved, then standardize and document the changes. Communicate the results to others that could benefit from similar changes. If the goals have not been achieved, determine why not, and proceed accordingly.

**Planning horizon** is the length of time a company uses as the basis of developing a plan, forecast, or schedule. (p. 68)

**Point-of-Sale Systems (POS)** record the transaction as each item is read by the bar code scanner. (p. 81)

**Price** is the amount paid for a service or good (p. 14)

**Problem statement** is a concise verbal statement of the problem under study. (p. 32)

**Process design** describes how a product is made. (p. 8)

**Process Design** is how the product, either a good or service, is produced. (p. 24)

**Process selection** is determining the most appropriate method of completing a task. It is a series of decisions that include technical or engineering issues and volume or scale issues. The technical or engineering issues include the basic methods used to produce a service or good. (p. 54)

**Process variable** is the current measured value of a process which is being monitored or controlled. (p. 32)

**Process-oriented layout** is characterized by the production of many different products with the same equipment and low volume of any individual product. (p. 46) Example: job shop or machine shop

**Product Design** is how the product, either a good or a service, functions. (p. 24)  For a product, it is the determination of the characteristics, features, and performance of the product. (p. 8)

**Product development** is a teamwork-oriented process that begins with the organization’s strategy and analysis of the markets as inputs. (p. 15)

**Product facility strategy**, a product facility strategy means that one facility is responsible for producing one product or product line and shipping that product throughout the country and the world. (p. 51)

**Product flexibility** can be defined as the amount of responsiveness (or adaptability) for any future change in a product design. (p. 92)

**Product quality** is the extent to which the product successfully serves the purposes of the user during usage. (p. 14)

**Production Kanban (P-kanban)** is used to authorize the production of parts or subassemblies. (p. 90)

**Productivity** measures the ability to produce goods and services (outputs) compared to the inputs or resources used in the process. Productivity is a mathematical calculation; it is the ratio of the outputs achieved divided by the inputs consumed to achieve those outputs. (p. 16)

Productivity = Output/Input

**Product-oriented layout** is characterized by high demand for the same or similar products. few, if any, product variations, and the layout fits the dominant flow of the product—thus, the name "product layout." (p. 46)

**Profitability** is the efficient use of resources means getting as much positive return from them as possible. (p.12)

**Projects**, which are usually one-of-a-kind operations. Every job is different from any other. Product variety approaches the point where the batch size is one.  Fixed position layout Ex. Facility construction, Ship building (p.54)

**Pull system** moves materials through a system to work-stations as they are needed. Daily builds are scheduled only when there are orders for the products. (p. 89)

**Purchase order** a planned order release generated by MRP that is an authorization for a vendor to supply parts or materials. (p. 69)

**Push system** moves materials through the processing operations based on a schedule. Uses a master schedule to plan builds out in time, and parts (raw materials, subassemblies, etc.) are ordered based on this build plan. (p. 89)

**Qualitative factors** are more subjective and are usually not enumerated. (p. 50)

**Qualitative forecast methods** based on subjective interpretation of historical data and observations. (p. 63)

**Quality function deployment (QFD)** is one method that can be used to make that transformation by relating customer needs and expectations to specific design characteristics through a series of grids or matrices. (p. 28)

**Quality** is the degree to which a specific product conforms to its design characteristics or specifications. Today, most companies define quality as consistently meeting or exceeding the customer’s needs and expectations.  (p. 23 & 34)

**Quality of Goods** focuses on factors critical in determining quality because they design and build the product: (p. 24)

1. **Performance—**The primary operating characteristics of a product.
2. **Features—**The secondary characteristics that supplement the product’s basic functioning.
3. **Reliability—**The length of time a product will function before it fails, or the probability it will function for a stated period of time.
4. **Conformance—**The degree to which a product’s design and operating characteristics match pre-established standards.
5. **Durability—**The ability of a product to function when subjected to hard and frequent use.
6. **Serviceability—**The speed, courtesy, and competence of repair.
7. **Aesthetics—**How a product looks, feels, sounds, tastes, or smells.
8. **Perceived quality—**The image, advertising, or brand name of a product.

**Quantitative factors** are easily measurable and are usually assigned a numerical value (p. 50)

**Quantity discount model:** A discount offered in price for ordering above a specified amount. (p. 82)

**Regional facility strategy** requires that each production facility has a defined marketing area, and each facility produces a complete line of products for that area. This is often done when customer convenience and access are important, or when outbound transportation costs are very high (p. 51)

**Relative advantage** is defined as the difference between the lowest cost producer and the next-lowest cost producer. (p. 10)

**Responsibility for Quality** is realizing that everyone must accept responsibility, from the company CEO to the person who cleans the parking lot and suppliers also accept responsibility for their role in quality. (p. 28)

**Reverse Logistics** includes efforts to reuse and recycle materials**.** (p. 37)

**Run charts** are another form of control chart for processes that might have common features, a common scale, or some form of central tendency. (p. 30)

**Run-out time** is a calculation of how long it will take for the company to run out of each product at current usage rates. Run-out time is determined as follows: (p. 75)

Run-out time = current inventory/usage rate

**Safety Stock** is inventory to protect against unexpected demand. (p. 83)

**Scatter plot** displays data as a relationship between two variables. (p. 30)

**Scheduling** is coordinating work tasks, people, materials, facilities, and equipment needed to create goods and services at a specific point in time. (p. 73)

**Seasonal Demand** occurs as shoppers adjust their purchase velocity in line with holidays. (p. 80)

**Sequencing rules** are guidelines for the order in which a set of procedures should take place. Usually applied to situations in which parts or products are waiting to be processed. (p. 71)

**Service** is broadly defined as companion activities, such as helping to arrange financing for a purchase or helping to install equipment. It also includes service after the sale—advice on operating a piece of equipment, providing repair parts, and processing warranty claims. (p. 14)

**Service Level** is selecting a level of stock-outs that the company is willing to accept. (p. 83)

**Service Quality** focuses on five dimensions of quality used by customers to judge service quality: (p. 23 & 24)

1. **Reliability**—The ability to perform the promised service dependably and accurately.
2. **Responsiveness**— The willingness to help customers and provide prompt service.
3. **Assurance**— The knowledge and courtesy of employees and their ability to convey trust and confidence.
4. **Empathy**— The provision of caring, individualized attention to customers.
5. **Tangibles**— The appearance of physical facilities, equipment, personnel, and communication materials, including the access and effectiveness of internet-based information.

**Services** are intangible products producing the services of an organization and providing them directly to its customers. (p. 8)

**Setup time** is the time it takes to readjust a machine or group of machines after making one part until acceptable units of another part are produced. (p. 90)

**Shewhart, Walter** the founding father of statistical process control. (p. 25)

**Shop order** is a planned order release generated by MRP that authorizes production to make certain component parts or subassemblies. (p. 69)

**Simple moving average** **(quantitative)** is where the forecast for the next period is equal to the average of the recent periods. It is used to smooth out the peaks and valleys in the data. (p. 63)

**Six Sigma** is a collection of ideas and programs intended to improve the quality of a service or a good by using tools that identify the root cause of the defects to produce error free products., specifically - 3.4 defects per 1 million units (p. 31)

**Standardization** involves developing a preset procedure for performing an activity or job. (p. 28)

**Statistical process control (SPC)** is the use of statistical methods to determine when a process that produces a good or service is getting close to producing an unacceptable level of defects. (p. 25 & 30)

**Stock Out** occurs when inventory is depleted. (p. 83)

**Strategic Alliance** is an agreement between two or more parties to pursue a set of agreed upon objectives needed while remaining independent organizations to improve supply-chain wide performance rather than simply developing one-time solutions to problems. (p. 40)

**Strategy** defines how the organization chooses to compete within the framework dictated by the external environment. (p. 9)

**Supplier Development** is the practice of helping suppliers improve their production and service capabilities and is usually undertaken with suppliers of key goods or services that are critical to success and profitability of the supply chain. (p. 40)

**Supply Chain** encompasses all activities associated with the flow and transfer of goods and services, from raw material extraction through use by the final consumer. (p. 36)

**Supply Chain Management** is an approach in which all members of the supply chain work together, coordinate their activities, and share information. (p. 36)

**Supply Chain Operations Reference (SCOR**) model offers a framework of processes and metrics to help companies monitor and control the performance of their supply chain. (p. 38)

**Supply-side** **bottlenecks** are the obstacles to the supply of a product or service taking place even if there is demand for it. (p. 39)

1. **Regulatory** bottlenecks with respect to imports, exports, and U.S. Customs or pollutant emissions and the EPA.
2. **Labor** bottlenecks with respect to available skills or work shift availability.
3. **Technology** bottlenecks from different information exchange protocols.
4. **Decision-making** bottlenecks caused by procrastination or by not aligning management authority with management responsibility.
5. **Physical** bottlenecks from under-investment, under-utilization, weather, road construction or accidents, or physical location or geographical limitations.
6. **Process** bottlenecks that occur when the production process itself - its capacity, flexibility, or activities - is its own biggest limitation.
7. **Financial** bottlenecks due to finite budgets or credit availability.

**Survey method** **(qualitative)** is a systematic effort to elicit information from specific groups and is usually conducted via a written questionnaire, a phone interview, or the Internet. (p. 63)

**Sustainability** is the ethical issues an organization faces to balance financial performance while maintaining social responsibility standards and a responsible environmental profile. Sustainability can also relate to the so-called "triple bottom line" of profitability, employee wellness, and environmental viability. (p.12)

**SWOT analysis** is a simple but useful technique for analyzing an organization’s strengths and weaknesses and the opportunities and threats that it faces. It helps a company focus on its strengths, minimize threats, and take the greatest possible advantage of opportunities available. (p. 14 & 15)

1. **Strengths** are the characteristics of a business or project that lend an advantage within the scope of the study.
2. **Weaknesses** are characteristics of a business or project result in a disadvantage, relative to others.
3. **Opportunities** are elements that the project could exploit to its advantage.
4. **Threats** are elements in the competitive environment that could create trouble for the business or project.

**Synergy** involves cooperative actions (teamwork) in which the total effect of the actions is greater than the sum of the individual effects (i.e., the whole is greater than the sum of its parts). (p. 15)

**Taguchi, Genichi** was a quality philosopher who focused on Robust Design and Parabolic Quality Loss Function, particularly that quality must be designed into a product. (p. 25).

**Team Problem-Solving** is utilizing team efforts to problem-solve allowing for different viewpoints and enabling the team members to split the workload and brainstorm possible solutions with one another. (p. 28)

**Technology** is applying knowledge, usually in the form of recently developed tools, processes, and procedures, to solve problems. (p. 8)

**Test market (qualitative)** is where the forecaster arranges for the placement of a new or redesigned product in a city believed to be representative of the organization’s overall market. (p. 63)

**Theory of Constraints (TOC).** a 5-step thinking process which helps a firm achieve optimal throughput, or the maximum rate of output possible in the current system, by identifying the bottleneck and coordinating the system around the bottleneck's capacity. TOC also helps identify ways of overcoming the bottleneck. (p. 48)

**Third Party Logistics** is when a company uses a 3rd party to outsource their distribution, warehousing, and fulfillment services. (p. 37)

**Time bucket** is a period of time, usually one week, in which demand and requirements are grouped for master scheduling and material requirements planning. (p.68)

**Time fences** act as boundaries between periods in the planning horizon of the MPS. Inside the time fence of the master schedule, a company decides what level of change is acceptable. (p. 68)

**Time horizon** – see Planning Horizon

**Time Series forecast methods (quantitative)** are based upon historical data from past periods of time. (p. 63)

**Total costs (TC)** consist of fixed costs + variable costs.  (p. 52) Total-cost equation is: TC=(VC)X+FC

Where:

VC= variable cost per unit

X= the number of units produced

FC= fixed costs

TC= total cost

**Total Preventive Maintenance** is used to properly lubricate or maintain parts to prevent breaking down with an emphasis on preventive maintenance, allocation of time each day for maintenance with Operator responsibility for maintenance. (p. 90)

**Total quality management (TQM)** is an approach to quality management that originated in Japan and was adopted successfully by many companies throughout the world. (p. 27)

**Trade-Offs in Productivity** is maintaining the level of output while decreasing inputs, or by increasing output without increasing any input. (p. 17)

**Transportation discounts** are discounts offered on shipping cost for ordering above a specified amount. (p. 80)

**Types of Inventory** (p. 80)

1. **Raw materials:** These parts and materials are obtained from suppliers and are used in the production process.
2. **Work-in-process (WIP):** These are partly finished parts, components, subassemblies, or modules.
3. **Finished goods**: Items are ready to ship to the customer. No more work is required.
4. **Replacement parts inventory:** These are maintained to replace other parts in machinery or equipment as those parts wear out.
5. **Supplies**: Parts or materials are used to support the production process but not usually a component of the product. These items, such as lubricant and cutting tools, are consumed in the production process.
6. **Transportation (pipeline):** The portion of inventory that is in the process of being shipped through the distribution system.

**Unexpected Demand** occurs due to an unusual or unexpected event. (p. 80)

**Value** is created by precisely meeting specific customer needs. (p. 14)

**Value stream mapping** is a technique used to analyze the flow of materials, ideas, and information to understand how processes function. Each activity in the process is defined as value-added or non-value added. (p. 89)

**Variability reduction** involves understanding customer needs and developing a product and process design that balances these needs with process capabilities and potential sources of variation. (p. 92)

**Variable costs (VC)** are those that change and can be adjusted as business conditions change (p. 52)

**Vendor Managed Inventory** is where the vendor, or supplier, can better coordinate its own production with the replenishment of supplier inventory, thus reducing costs and improving delivery performance between the supplier and the retailer by receiving daily point-of-sale (POS) data from the retail stores, and they also have access to retailer’s inventory files. (p. 38)

**Vertical Integration** is owning multiple assets in a supply chain. (p. 38)

**Volume effectiveness** is the ability to produce goods and services in large enough quantities to meet overall demand. (p. 14)

**Volume flexibility** is defined as the ability of an organization to change volume levels in response to changing socio-economic conditions profitably and with minimal disruptions. (p. 92)

**Warranty Costs**- The cost to repair or replace defective products or refund customer money for a defective product (p. 38)

**Waste** can be categorized in two ways—as necessary but non-value-added or as pure waste. It is always difficult to determine the exact amount of each. (p. 92)

7 Types of Wastes:

1. Overproduction: producing more than customer’s demand.
2. Waiting: occurs when a good is not being transported or processed.
3. Transportation: moving a product or a patient from one point to another.
4. Overprocessing: occurs when more work is done than is required by the customer.
5. Inventory: represents goods, raw materials or supplies that are stored for future use, production or consumption.
6. Motion or movement: activities that do not add value, such as excessive walking by a manufacturing employee or a service worker, or searching for items that are lost, such as paperwork.
7. Defects: things such as scrap or rework that add cost, but no value.

**Weighted moving average** **(quantitative)** assigns different weights to each period.  If there is an up or down trend in the data, a weighted moving average can adjust more quickly than a simple moving average. (p. 63)

**Work Execution** is the performance of the plan created in the product and process design. (p. 24)